Release notes draft for 7.11.0 (#12596)
elastic/logstash: docs/static/releasenotes.asciidoc

#12387].

**Persistent Queue corruption after newly allocated page**

A Logstash crash or forceful termination could leave queue in an unrecoverable state,
causing the following error to be logged as the pipeline starts:

```
[ERROR][org.logstash.execution.AbstractPipelineExt] Logstash failed to create queue.
org.logstash.ackedqueue.io.MmapPageIOV2$PageIOInvalidVersionException: Expected page version=2 but found version=0
```

This has been solved in https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/12554[#12554] by ensuring the version file
is persisted.

**Better handling of fatal exceptions**

Under certain circumstances, Logstash would not respect fatal errors such as java.lang.OutOfMemoryError and continue executing
without processing data. This issue has been addressed in https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/12563[#12563].
As a consequence of this change, Logstash will now terminate with exit codes associated with the kind of fatal error:

* 128 - InternalError (error in the Java Virtual Machine)
* 127 - OutOfMemoryError
* 126 - StackOverflowError
* 125 - UnknownError (unknown error in the Java Virtual Machine)
* 124 - IOError
* 123 - LinkageError (related to JRuby/FFI)

> * 120 - Error

Reviewer: @kares @karenzone looking at the PR where this comes from I don't see a docs change, let's make sure we document these error codes

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the heads up!  I opened a new issue and assigned both@kares and me: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/issues/12645. I look forward to working with you on this, @kares

Reviewer 3: OK, my bad - did not realize this would be something important to be documented right away.

Management in Kibana. When a user tried to delete a Logstash pipeline using
Kibana, the pipeline wasn’t deleted from the registry. The issue prevented users
from creating a new pipeline with the same name and config string. The issue has
been resolved in https://github.com/elastic/logstash/issues/12387[#12387].

**Persistent Queue corruption after newly allocated page**

A Logstash crash or forceful termination could leave the queue in an
unrecoverable state, causing the following error to be logged as the pipeline
starts:

```
[ERROR][org.logstash.execution.AbstractPipelineExt] Logstash failed to create queue.
org.logstash.ackedqueue.io.MmapPageIOV2$PageIOInvalidVersionException: Expected page version=2 but found version=0
```

This has been resolved in https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/12554[#12554]
by ensuring the version file is persisted.

**Better handling of fatal exceptions**

Under certain circumstances, Logstash would not respect fatal errors such as
java.lang.OutOfMemoryError and would continue executing without processing data.
This issue has been addressed in
https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/12563[#12563]. As a consequence of this

> change, Logstash will now terminate with exit codes associated with the kind of

Reviewer 3: do we want to stress out LS will halt the process right away:
```suggestion
change, Logstash will now halt immediately with exit codes associated with the kind of
```

fatal error:

* 128 - InternalError (error in the Java Virtual Machine)
* 127 - OutOfMemoryError
* 126 - StackOverflowError
* 125 - UnknownError (unknown error in the Java Virtual Machine)
* 124 - IOError
* 123 - LinkageError (related to JRuby/FFI)

> * 120 - Error

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* 120 - any other Error type not covered by a specific error code
```

#12387].

==== Logstash core
TODO: other fixes
pq: eliminate corruption by forcing version byte to be persisted #12554 https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/12554
Fix: make sure LS exits when running into fatal errors (#12563) (13 days ago) <Ry Biesemeyer>

> [7x backport] Handle Windows delete pending files (#12337) (3 months ago) <Rob Bavey>

Reviewer 4: This was in `7.10.0` - https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/12338

> [7x backport] Write DLQ entries to temp file first (#12304) (#12318) https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/12318

Reviewer 4: This was in `7.10.0` - https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/12317
